---
title: birthdays
---
<strong>On the topic of memories and birthdays.</strong>

i've never liked my birthday. to me, a birthday is a disruptive echo in the peace my mind dwells.  the good thing is, it comes knocking before it fully enters. the bad thing is, birthday comes everyday to haunt me before it's finally birth day, asks me questions i do not wish to ponder upon, gives me reasons to stay up late at night diluted in  god forsaken monologue, making my head spin and my heart hurl. of course, birthday doesn't do this to impose, or to be mean. birthday is the beautiful far-away second cousin who comes to visit for the summer,  wishes  for me to be happy and healthy and for God to bless me abundantly and for me to have a great year ahead. exchanging pleasantries and fickle laughter, followed by "so how have you been doing the past year". an uneasiness fills me from being in her presence, almost as if i have to impress her with my answers. birthday tries hard to understand the angsty me, showers me with carrot cake and a new pair of shoes i will wear till the soles flatten out, but i've always thought birthday should just shut the fuck up.

so to birthday, maybe this is an answer to your overbearing questions. maybe this is me trying to make amends with you after all these years. maybe this is stupid and i should just take my cake and repost the insta stories and leave. but if im going to have to face you every summer of my life, for the sake of keeping my peace, ill give you a shot at my nineteenth.

i dont know whose stupid idea it was to place importance on a date. human beings are not canned pineapples that lose their value past a certain expiration date. (birthday says; but maybe they do lose flavor. i sincerely hope i dont.). for now, i am content with being a canned pineapple collector, like the beautiful he qiwu in chungking express. at the end of every year, i scourge and i scavenge for pieces of memories, experiences, feelings, from throughout the year, combine them all in a can and prettily stick on a label and scribble on a date. this is everything about my 18. this is what i liked and disliked. this is whatever experience that shaped me. this is whatever conversation that has left its mark on me. this is people of my 18, new and old. prized possessions that i drench with sickening glucose syrup that sometimes blends everything to the same dull taste. i smile and take in the high, the subjectivity of memories has never tasted sweeter.

these days ive been trying to recollect a lot about my past and ive been realising how my memory changes each time i tell a story. in an animated manner, or in a way in which every word i choose holds utmost significant, or in hushed whispers hoping to God i feel relief if i reveal this secret - in any way or form, im in a cycle of rebuilding instances in my head and deconstructing them again when they need to be stored. there is pretty much no way around this.  i have yet to come up with a way to narrate that can encapsulate everything about a moment, something like dumbledore's pensieve. instead i wrestle and grapple with the thesaurus to find one that that specifically describes a feeling perfectly. i get so excited when i do finally find one. most of the time, i dont, and i settle for an awkward "you get what i mean?"

anyways, back to my experiences. what 18 has left me feeling is a shortage of pineapples to store and keep. i keep trying to think back on what has happened. i have a strong inkling to laugh when i realize so much but also nothing has.

half of my eighteen was spent in jakarta, a ruthless sun reflected in the endless asphalt, in a noisy car with a rotation of friends on the way to the south side of town, where we think all the good shit is at. i am dreading the end of things as i know it yet excited for new things to come. a big burden that starts with M for money sits atop my heart but a lulling prayer sits on the edge of my tongue - i can do anything through Him who strengthens me.

the other half of my eighteen i spent in singapore, same ruthless sun, but grey asphalt melts into hues of beige concrete, and i am alone, crossing the street to a bus stop or an mrt station, a point of access to any destination i can imagine properly brimming with possibilities and energy. but instead of flying, i decided to settle down roots.

instead, what flew off the charts was my spectrum of emotions in the past few months. i have cried tears of joy seeing the beauty of the skyline for the very first time and i have wailed till i had to crouch in the airport when my best friend called to say she had covid. i have tried to bottle up what i could and i have tried to release but to the wrong person. i have longed for company the way thirst longs for water and ached for purpose the way water aches to be drunk. i have laughed till i couldnt breathe, yelling memek in a mcdonalds in redhill knowing that nobody understands what im saying, but most recently i have gasped till i couldnt breathe, looking at my bank account e-statement. i have been creative in an incredibly stimulating way after a productive 10 hours of staring at adoba indesign, but i have also been creative in finding nooks to cry in in this tiny bugis apartment where my housemates cant see. i have been jealous of other people's experiences thinking mine falls short, but mostly i have been so grateful that i'm even here.

at 18, someone helped me realise that its not really what happens externally to you that makes for a good story, but its being engaged with yourself and truthful enough about your feelings that is proof that you're alive and beating and that is all that fucking matters.

so dear birthday, next time around you ask me how my year was, i hope you dont mind the artificial taste of subjective memories blanketed with my habits of romanticising everything a bit too much. i hope you dont mind that i have no ticket or insta story as a memento of when i travelled the whole singapore by bus. i hope you dont think im wasting away my dumb youthful days by not partying every chance i get. i hope you dont curse me for baring it all to a guy who was interested in the bare minimum. hope you dont find it boring that if i tell you funny stories, it'll probably only consist of 5 different names.  i hope you think art school is worth the time and money and stop fucking regretting every major life decision. i hope against odds and against reason and rhyme. and i hope, fervently and unremittingly, that whatever stale pineapples i have with me today are ones i can remember on my 80th birthday with a smile - thinking what an odd and humid summer the summer of my eighteenth to my nineteenth was.