 I wanted to study how modern media portrays the meaning of being human. And scifi is the perfect genre to do so. 
- To me, the genre exists like both a vision and wake up call for humanity. For one, scifi begets the potential of the wonderful possibilities of human innovation and technologies, or it can go the dark route and show the consequences of such advancements. 
- How does scifi relate to [[Twist of contrast]]? 
	- In a project I did for school, i was talking heavily about dehumanization as my inspiration, making me satirically observe humanization within inanimate objects as a form of satire. The advancements that the world has made thanks to technology has shown incrimental changes towards how we engage with the world. In other words, our human touch. As tech becomes more and more human through artifical intelligence and bioengineering, theres definitely an effect of dumanization. Will it replace humans altogether one day? Is that really what we want to become? Furthermore, my photobook cover was essentially a graphic manual of a manufactured human.
- How does scifi relate to philosophy?
	- 

## Blade Runner 2049 
- Blade runner may seem like your typical blockbuster, but its actually a picturesque portrayal of the perpetual questioning what it means to be human. We look first at replicants, or androids. The newer models have within them implanted artificial memories, fuelling authentic emotional responses and morality. In this world there is wall reinforcing the social hierarchal system, and one of the characters quoted that once people realize there is no wall, a war will be bought. This wall is referred to as the line that distinguishes humans and androids. In a world where androids have become so distinctively human with them having memories and emotions, this wall is upheld by one sole thing that androids cant do that humans can - procreation. 
- The story centers around k, a replicant whos service is to kill other older replicant models whove gone rogue. K is fine with killing replicants because he has a core belief that anything man-made doesnt possess a soul. In fact, this core belief subjugates how he perceives himself and his place and interaction with the world. Hes complacent with being badly treated because of his job as a blade runner, of the fact that his girlfriend is a consumer product, stopping her when she shows affection that feels too authentic. However, this suppression of humanity loosens as the movie progresses, forging the idea that yes - to have needs and wants and desires is a visceral human tendency, and despite of his android state, he longs for these things just the same way that any human would.
- I think one of the most important part of the whole movie is that the most human aspect is this relationship between a replicant and a hologram programmed to meet his needs. I find myself convinced that the love joi had for k was for real. She symbolizes the blurring of the lines between what is real and what is not because really at the end of the day it does not matter. She calls him joe because it is part of her programming and what she calls her buyers, yet does this cancel the fact that she seflessly died to save him? The fact is that the connection broughtforth by this relationship feels real, therefore is real. This relates to the philosophical theory of empiricism as well, which is the fact that all reason and knowledge is born of senses. As an android is implanted with senses and memories, it no longer matters whether they are designed or not, the fact is that the beauty of being human lies in the seeking and the experience, not the answer of whether these things are real or the mere ability to procreate. The walls have collapsed long before this revelation. This movie relates to my return brief and my project because it unpacks what makes us so distinctively human. In my 60 second video, i only had the time to explore one part of it - which is that humans are fuelled by a search. This pregnant curiosity - this itch they have to scratch, this lump in their throat, this lovesickness and homesickness - is the essence which births new discoveries. 
- Limitations looms over the movie - people make do despite. 
1. Physicality as a constraint. Agent k loves joi despite of her being a hologram and she strives to prove her authentic love for him as well. 
2. Consciousness as a constraint - agent k has to be baselined - to have enough consciousness to be of use but just barely enoough. 

- Aside from gaining deeper clarity about a media approach to something as meta as the meaning of being human, i think the color theory in blade runner is brilliant. Yellow is a sign of information, appearing everytime he gains it. White is of enlightenment, which is why agent k dies in a field of snow, surrounded by his truth.