In a lecture I had in 2021, we studied examples of symbolism used in film. As a class, we did an analysis on the currently popular netflix show squidgame. I find myself acknowledging the twist of contrast is actually a really smart idea, but still quite disappointed by how cheesy the production looks. Until, pointed out by my lecturer, is that its deliberately packed in a cheesily produced way to show that "twist of contrast". 

- so as i was thinking about my own project and the visual metaphors and symbols i utilized i find that its safe and recurring. The tone of sage is apparent, and its a good thing because ive struggled with matching archetypes in the past. However, it became too apparent that it doesnt leave room for twists or something that may be able to hook my audiences interest deeper - such as that twist of contrast. I was already employing a few, through the use of colors (predominantly black vs white), and the use of such simple shapes, which contrasts the all too complex message of what it means to be human. Then, i got an idea to take that twist of contrast further and use a childs voice for narration instead. The rationale behind this is that the question is such a deep question that if a child asks their parents they wouldnt really know how to answer. This provides a frame for the audience - the voice asking is someone who really doesnt know and is genuinely curious and oblivious. However, why does she sound so wise? Thats where the point of interest lies. Using a childs voice to offset the deep complex message, because i will have to use simple and childish vocabulary and concepts. Meaning, i also aim to change my visuals to facilitate it better. 

- Symbolism of milk in movies, still under the overarching theme of juxtaposition. Milk symbolizes childlike innocence and youth, so when a grown man whos an assassin is shown to be drinking it in leon the professional, its unhinging and out of place. This dissociativeness between meaning and subject creates a feeling of eerieness and discomfort for the audience. This theme resonated with me a lot to the point i was thinking of it while watching other movies. 

- For one, in neon genesis evangelion, a japanese anime about children piloting mecha-robots to save humanity from aliens. The show is beguilling in a way that adults are supposed to protect children, but in this case its the opposite, and it drives you to empathize with them. Its a magnified issue about children being victims of war and violence broughtforth by adults. Simplified plot in order to reach a wider audience. In that sense, squidgame has definitely succeeded, as its the number one netflix show in so many countries. Other than that, the underlying message of capitalim and subliminal human greed is being talked about in a legion of articles, videos, analyses all around the internet, a point for advocacy around social issues, which is definitely a win to celebrate for squidgame